README.md, before:

# Split Typematrix 2020 
## A Typematrix 2020 style autogenerated keyboard
[![Build](https://github.com/tbaumann/typematrix_split_ergogen/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/tbaumann/typematrix_split_ergogen/actions/workflows/build.yml)

## Layout
The Typematrix 2020 was one of the first ortholinear ergo keyboards and arguably the best layout ever made `[citation needed]`

See [An evaluation of the TypeMatrix ergonomic keyboard](http://www.typematrix.com/documents/TypeMatrix_study.pdf)
left | right
-|-
![left](https://tbaumann.github.io/typematrix_split_new/images/left-top.png) | ![right](https://tbaumann.github.io/typematrix_split_new/images/right-top.png)
backside|backside
![left bottom](https://tbaumann.github.io/typematrix_split_new/images/left-bottom.png) | ![right bottom](https://tbaumann.github.io/typematrix_split_new/images/right-bottom.png)


The interesting thing about this keyboard is that it's a declarative design:
* Layout is declared using [Ergogen](https://github.com/mrzealot/ergogen/). 
* The build system uses Ergogen to translate YAML to a KiCad PCB and plate files for FR-4 fab or laser cutting
* uses [kicad-automation-scripts](https://github.com/productize/kicad-automation-scripts) and [FreeRouting](https://github.com/freerouting/freerouting) to **automatically route the traces on the PCB**
* uses [KiKit](https://github.com/yaqwsx/KiKit) to render PCB previews (see top of this file) and production-ready **Gerber files**

## Features

* **Typematrix 2020** inspired split layout
* **Kailh Choc PG1350** choc mini, low profile key switches
* [Nice!nano](https://nicekeyboards.com/nice-nano) optimised, but any promicro should work (bottom up) 
* [Nice!view](https://nicekeyboards.com/nice-view) support
  
## Todo
* Remove clutter and unnecesary outlines
* Top plate generation
* Bottom Plate (Thick PCB with cutouts for all components placed at the bottom. Optimised for maximum thinness)
* Remove or document magic numbers
* SMD footrints
* Better nice!nano footprint, steal from https://github.com/bstiq/nice-nano-kicad
* Middle bracked PCB with touchpad (Holds both halves together rigidly)
* stabilizer cutouts Needs more research...
  Thanks https://github.com/jasonhazel for measuring the ChocFox WOB 3u spacebar stabilizer spacing. (40mm)

## How to

If you would like to modify this:
* fork it
* change `ergogen/config.yaml` to your liking
* push your changes; the `build.yml` GitHub Workflow will pick it up, autoroute and generate Gerbers, all in a zip file.
  See https://github.com/soundmonster/samoklava/actions
* or:
  * make sure to have Docker CLI and NodeJS installed
  * run `make setup clean all`
  * check the `output` folder for KiCad PCBs and Gerbers

See the [workflow](.github/workflows/build.yml) or the [Makefile](Makefile) for more details.

## Disclaimer

**Work in progress!**

Only connect battery if a nice!nano board is used!

Commit message:

Link build artifacts in README

README.md, after:

# Split Typematrix 2020 
## A Typematrix 2020 style autogenerated keyboard
[![Build](https://github.com/tbaumann/typematrix_split_new/actions/workflows/build.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/tbaumann/typematrix_split_new/actions/workflows/build.yaml)

## Layout
The Typematrix 2020 was one of the first ortholinear ergo keyboards and arguably the best layout ever made `[citation needed]`

See [An evaluation of the TypeMatrix ergonomic keyboard](http://www.typematrix.com/documents/TypeMatrix_study.pdf)
left | right
-|-
![left](https://tbaumann.github.io/typematrix_split_new/images/left-top.png) | ![right](https://tbaumann.github.io/typematrix_split_new/images/right-top.png)
backside|backside
![left bottom](https://tbaumann.github.io/typematrix_split_new/images/left-bottom.png) | ![right bottom](https://tbaumann.github.io/typematrix_split_new/images/right-bottom.png)

## Make my own
It's not finised really. But you can find the latest build artifacts [here](https://tbaumann.github.io/typematrix_split_new/)


The interesting thing about this keyboard is that it's a declarative design:
* Layout is declared using [Ergogen](https://github.com/mrzealot/ergogen/). 
* The build system uses Ergogen to translate YAML to a KiCad PCB and plate files for FR-4 fab or laser cutting
* uses [kicad-automation-scripts](https://github.com/productize/kicad-automation-scripts) and [FreeRouting](https://github.com/freerouting/freerouting) to **automatically route the traces on the PCB**
* uses [KiKit](https://github.com/yaqwsx/KiKit) to render PCB previews (see top of this file) and production-ready **Gerber files**

## Features

* **Typematrix 2020** inspired split layout
* **Kailh Choc PG1350** choc mini, low profile key switches
* [Nice!nano](https://nicekeyboards.com/nice-nano) optimised, but any promicro should work (bottom up) 
* [Nice!view](https://nicekeyboards.com/nice-view) support
  
## Todo
* Remove clutter and unnecesary outlines
* Top plate generation
* Bottom Plate (Thick PCB with cutouts for all components placed at the bottom. Optimised for maximum thinness)
* Remove or document magic numbers
* SMD footrints
* Better nice!nano footprint, steal from https://github.com/bstiq/nice-nano-kicad
* Middle bracked PCB with touchpad (Holds both halves together rigidly)
* stabilizer cutouts Needs more research...
  Thanks https://github.com/jasonhazel for measuring the ChocFox WOB 3u spacebar stabilizer spacing. (40mm)

## How to

If you would like to modify this:
* fork it
* change `ergogen/config.yaml` to your liking
* push your changes; the `build.yml` GitHub Workflow will pick it up, autoroute and generate Gerbers, all in a zip file.
  See https://github.com/soundmonster/samoklava/actions
* or:
  * make sure to have Docker CLI and NodeJS installed
  * run `make setup clean all`
  * check the `output` folder for KiCad PCBs and Gerbers

See the [workflow](.github/workflows/build.yml) or the [Makefile](Makefile) for more details.

## Disclaimer

**Work in progress!**

Only connect battery if a nice!nano board is used!
